does supply and demand really matter you
came here for the truth today we are
going to talk about supply and demand so
let's begin with real estate many people
believe that as long as there are buyers
for these new homes that are being built
the prices will continue to rise as long
as there are foreigners as long as there
are immigrants willing to purchase these
properties that are being built in these
megacities the price will rise and the
same goes for equities as long as there
are people there to buy up the shares
the prices will rise as well and this is
the consensus within the field of
economics your financial adviser will
tell you the same and of course the
general public believes this as well but
this isn't true let me explain why we
have supply and demand that exists and
that of course underlines everything
however we have recessions depressions
panics crashes and collapses and these
things throw off the balance of
everything that we normally take for
granted that prices will continue to
rise that things appear the way they
were yesterday but there are times in
history when that's not the case so take
for example real estate in 2007 in the
US the prices were rising and rising and
rising but what happened they got
carried away
the prices were rising too fast and they
realized that this wasn't reality one
thing led to another and all of that was
being covered up you've probably read it
all before but think about it everything
prior to that collapse we knew it all we
knew how bad thing it was becoming we
knew that there was a glut of homes we
knew that interest rates were reasonable
at the time but still historically too
low
and all the while all of that
information was public but as long as
the prices kept rising people said just
keep your mouth shut just let it happen
I'm making a lot of money on this asset
and let's just keep it where it is and
that's fine until the day that something
happens but it didn't even have to take
place in real estate think about the
financial crisis for a moment all of
those different companies that either
went belly-up or they had to be you know
different mergers and acquisitions that
took place as a result of the crisis
that all started because of the subprime
that was the lynchpin so you don't have
to even think of it directly your house
will have to remember the ripple effect
that's so important and people don't get
that through their heads the same thing
exists within equities yes today
everything might be ok you might have a
buyer tomorrow but what about down the
road you don't know what's going to
happen and you don't know what else will
trigger a sell-off in that particular
asset supply and demand might be there
look at oil we are still as dependent on
oil today as we were in let's say 2000
2001 what about in 2007 realistically
not much has changed we're going towards
more of the you know solar panels and
everything else but ultimately the world
is heavily heavily reliant on oil look
how much the price has fluctuated $10 a
hundred and ten dollars down all the way
up until you know let's say fit the
owners fundamentally not much has
changed
surely you know which geopolitically
things are different and you see that
the usages are different the amount that
have kept in inventories are different
but let's just let's just break it down
simply not much has changed and yet the
price fluctuates dramatically and you
see companies changing you see a lot of
different things that occur when
ultimately people still need oil they
needed
10 20 years ago they need it right now
it's a fact so what do we do exactly
well you need to understand that we have
to look at it from a fundamental
analysis that's understood but we also
have to realize that these things on
occasion do not matter they change and
that is affected by various different
you know indicators that we see if the
economy is not doing well you may not
see a particular asset rising but you
may see a rising as well that's the
funny thing about it people believe that
there are certain unchangeable things as
long as there's a buyer for the real
estate don't worry because there will be
always this interest and the prices can
continue to rise look at what's
happening in these real estate markets
in the mega cities where you see them
rising and rising and rising but what
would happen if interest rates rise all
of a sudden those fundamentals don't
matter anymore and the euphoria takes
over in the selling begins in the panic
takes hold and people will be unable to
therefore for in their homes one thing
leads to another they can't go to
restaurants for a little while they can
spend on the shopping malls anymore
they're not buying their iPhones one
thing at a time at all triggers whatever
you're interested in along the way you
just gotta follow them ripple effect and
see how it affects you but you
understand what I'm saying here is that
yes there is a fundamental analysis and
that's important than everything but
along the way we encounter these brief
periods of time where everything gets
torn off and everything gets thrown out
the window and you have to understand
that these happen these are devastating
and a lot of people don't know that
because they probably only started
paying attention from March 2009 and
onward if somebody for example is in the
real estate field and they've been in
let's say Canada they started in the mid
1990s they have never seen real estate
prices fall they never seen interest
rates fall they've only seen interest
rates getting lower lower mortgage rates
getting lower lower and
same time prices rising so what are they
gonna believe of course they're in this
business every single day and they see
that obviously they're not going to
believe what you have to say when you
think like this but the reality is it
happens and guess what a lot of people
because they are in way over their heads
they get hurt and it's dangerous and we
need to understand that this does happen
so that's all I wanted to talk about
today very briefly just wanted to bring
it to you I hope you enjoyed it just
wanted to say hello I just want to say
thank you to all my supporters out there
and that's all for today take care see
you later